Aiming for a commonly-accepted (pre-standard) diagnostic and evaluation
methodology and technology, wide dissemination and assessment of the 
[incr tsdb()] package is most desirable.  Thus, the software (in source code)
and data are made available to the general public, free of royalties, for
academic or other non-commercial use, including deployment in corporate
environments.

To provide feedback on the distribution of the package, [incr tsdb()] users
are encouraged to register (see below) and relay comments, bug reports or
suggestion for improvement to the contact address given below.  

While unregistered, the package is fully functional but, after several minutes
of continuous use, a log message is generated and sent to a central protocol
server (at Saarbruecken University).  This notification message only contains
information about the version of [incr tsdb()] used and the name of the
machine it is run on.  However, because of the transmission protocol used over
the InterNet, additional information becomes available to the protocol server,
viz. the time of [incr tsdb()] usage (when the message is generated) and the
account used (the originator of the protocol message).  

Registering the software will effectively suppress all message generation for
all future uses.

As part of the installation or at a later time (e.g. once you found the
package to be useful for your purposes), it is recommended that you register
with the author.  Registration is not intended to restrict distribution or
application of the software, to charge users a license fee, or turn a profit
from the sale of a large customer database.  The main and only purpose of
voluntary registration is to provide feedback to the author and to allow
(occasional) relaying of information to the actual users; unless otherwise
requested, registered users will be added to the [incr tsdb()] maling list.
The maling list is used by the author to announce major version upgrades as
they become available; it is very low traffic.

Registration proceeds as follows

  (a) make yourself known to the author: send email to the contact address
      containing information about the user name(s) and machine name(s) that
      you want to register; if you want to register for an entire InterNet
      domain (i.e. a wildcard machine name) or a group of users (i.e. all
      accounts for some host or domain), please give an estimate of the
      expected size of either set; 
  (b) receive one or multiple [incr tsdb()] license keys for your site by
      email; 
  (c) add the license key(s), in exactly the same format as they were
      received, to the file `Keys' in the `src/tsdb' subdirectory of your
      installation; e.g. 

        *       *.coli.uni-sb.de        OE1234567890
        stefan  *.dfki.uni-sb.de        OE1234567890
        uc      *.dfki.uni-sb.de        OE1234567890
        *       eo.stanford.edu         OE1234567890
        *       eoan.stanford.edu       OE1234567890
        malouf  gerund                  OE1234567890
        aac     anstac                  OE1234567890

      alternatively, e.g. if you have no write access to the [incr tsdb()]
      source tree at your site, you can set the license key from the file
      `~/.podiumrc' (see the section `Customization' in the User & Reference
      Manual) in your home directory; e.g.

        set globals(copyleft,key) OE1234567890;

On start-up, the main [incr tsdb()] interaction window will display a
copyright message that reflects the status of the current copy; it will
either display a message like

  --- Registered Copy [OE1234567890] ---

confirming the registration and the license key currently in use, or
notify the user about the pending protocol message that will be
generated after several minutes of continuous use.

Contact Address

  Stephan Oepen
  Computational Linguistics
  Saarland University
  Postfach 151140
  66041 Saarbruecken
  oe@coli.uni-sb.de
  (+49 681) - 302 41 76
